secular buddhism
	the recovery from suffering will go more smoothly when we learn to see things as they really are, impermanent.
	EVERYTHING is impermanent.
	EVERYTHING is interdependent.
	We can't avoid suffering.

Noble Eightfold Path
	right understanding
	right thought
	right speech
   right action
   right livelihood
   right effort
   right mindfulness
   right concentration
   
   Dharma wheel
   
   tenfold
      right knowledge, or insight (sammā-ñāṇa)
      right liberation, or release (sammā-vimutti)

Tathāgata
   "one who has thus gone" (tathā-gata)
   "one who has thus come" (tathā-āgata)
   beyond all coming and going
   beyond all transitory phenomena
   one who has transcended the human condition
   one beyond the otherwise endless cycle of rebirth and death
   comes and goes in the same way
   knows and sees reality as-it-is
   the one who has gone to suchness
   the one who has arrived at suchness

Tripiṭaka, also referred to as Tipiṭaka or Pali Canon, is the traditional term for the Buddhist scriptures.
These are canonical texts revered as exclusively authoritative in Theravada Buddhism. The Mahayana Buddhism 
also reveres them as authoritative but, unlike Theravadins, it also reveres various derivative literature 
and commentaries that were composed much later.

The Tripitakas were composed between about 500 BCE to about the start of the common era, 
likely written down for the first time in the 1st century BCE.

Tripiṭaka (Sanskrit: त्रिपिटक), also called Tipiṭaka (Pali), means Three Baskets. It is a compound Sanskrit word 
of tra (त्र) meaning three, and pitaka (पिटक) or pita (पिट) meaning "basket or box made from bamboo or wood" 
and "collection of writings"

bodhisattvas
   human beings who have become enlightened through the experience of understanding deep truths
   vow
      Never will I seek nor receive private individual salvation– never enter into final peace alone;
      but forever and everywhere will I live and strive for the universal redemption of every creature 
      throughout all worlds. Until all are delivered, never will I leave the world of sin, sorrow and 
      struggle, but will remain where I am.

Nirvana
   The literal meaning is "blowing out" or "quenching."
   the extinction of the "three fires" or "three poisons"
      passion or sensuality (raga)
      aversion or hate (dvesha)
      ignorance or delusion (moha or avidyā)
      
      When these fires are extinguished, release from the cycle of rebirth (saṃsāra) is attained.
   
   "residue of fuel" (Nirvana-in-this-life)
      happiness
      freedom of negative mental states
      peacefulness
      non-reactiveness
   "nirvana without residue" (final nirvana or parinirvana)
      "blowing out" at the moment of death, when there is no fuel left.

anatta
   no abiding self or soul in any being or a permanent essence in any thing
   all reality is of dependent origination and a worldly construction of each human mind
   therefore ultimately a delusion or ignorance
sunyata (emptiness or nothingness)
   the middle point of all dualities (Middle Way)
   all subject-object discrimination and polarities disappear
   there is no conventional reality
   the only ultimate reality of emptiness is all that remains

precanonical Buddhism
   The Buddha was considered as an extraordinary being, in whom ultimate reality was embodied,
      and who was an incarnation of the mythical figure of the tathagata;
   The Buddha's disciples were attracted to his spiritual charisma and supernatural authority;
   Nirvana was conceived as the attainment of immortality, and the gaining of a deathless sphere
      from which there would be no falling back. This nirvana, as a transmundane reality or state, 
      is incarnated in the person of the Buddha;
   Nirvana can be reached because it already dwells as the inmost "consciousness" of the human 
      being. It is a consciousness which is not subject to birth and death.

threefold division of reality
   The rupadhatu, the samsaric sphere of name and form (namarupa), in which ordinary beings live, 
      die, and are reborn.
   The arupadhatu, the sphere of "sheer nama," produced by samadhi, an ethereal realm frequented 
      by yogins who are not completely liberated;
   "Above" or "outside" these two realms is the realm of nirvana, the "amrta sphere," characterized 
      by prajna. This nirvana is an "abode" or "place" which is gained by the enlightened holy man.

Pratītyasamutpāda (Dependent origination)
    Majjhima Nikaya
      When this is, that is; 
      This arising, that arises; 
      When this is not, that is not; 
      This ceasing, that ceases.
      
   

















