Leaving the Fold

4 - The benefits were real, especially as an adolescent. Later the cost became too great.
   I had to find out who I was and redefine reality.
7 - Dualistic thinking about right and wrong seems to dominate many of our institutions.
8 - By focusing completely on the virtues of God...
   We get enamored withe the origins of our problems and forget our creative power to make
   change in the present.
9 - And with more knowledge comes more ability to choose.
11 - If you dare to live, you will find your way.
16 - Because your religion took care of so much, defining and dictating reality in so many
   ways, you are now faced with largely recontructing your life.
17 - Confuction - Many people in this phase feel like a naive child in an adult world. You
   might have trouble with intense feelings...
   "conviction of the Holy Spirit".
18 - "throwing the baby out with the bath water". The rage may then go underground and stay
   with you.
20 - realize that when you process religious issues, you end up processing all of your issues.
22 - It is very hard for me to tke of find satisfaction in a job well done, and I do most 
   jobs well. Praise fails to register or make any difference.
23 - Processing emotions for yourself and expressing them to others may be areas you will 
   need to work on
32 - Troubled relationships only meant last of faith or submission to God.
33 - Shakespeare, Siddhartha, The Stranger, Catcher in the Rye, Stranger in a Strange Land
35 - Beyond Freedom and Dignity
36 - Ram Dass's Be Here Now
   a child's behavior that appears "selfish" is often a part of learning identity and self-worth.
37 - I was becoming tired of twisting everything to fit.
   I learned more and more and felt better and better.
38 - self-respect was a near impossibility
39 - The closeness with a real live person had a profound effect: I broke my addiction to God.
40 - Good things were always due to God and failures were always mine.
47 - primitive survival needs
      survival - food, water, shelter
      safety - physical and psychological security
      belonging - love and acceptance
      self-esteem - approval and recognition
   being needs
      intellectual achievement - understanding and exploring
      Aesthetic appreciation - order, structure, and beauty
      self-actualition - full realization of one's potential, the process of becoming who you are
50 - Humans are strangely "doomed to freedom." Thus, he says, we seek structure, authority,
   grand designs, magic, something that is bigger than ourselves.
56 - We want unconditional love
57 - Being right while other are wrong can be very satisfying.
   Mystical Experience
59 - Helplessness and hopelessness are intolerable conditions.
71 - When God Becomes a Drug
72 - Mesmerizing preaching style
73 - The religion co-opts anything
   convincing people that they are failures
74 - Your confidence in your own judgement is destroyed
75 - rid yourself of self-reliance
78 - the only respected source of knowledge is authority
80 - If you control the information people receive, you restrict their ability to think...
   unwilling to accept a religion that made thinking a sin.
82 - In this type of love, there is no desire to know or be known, which in our everyday 
   understanding, underlies the condition of love.
95 - What I came out with was that God hates who I really am.
95 - The most common struggle is depression.
96 - her leftover rage --> tears. She had to retrieve her sense of self and work to find out who
   she was.
99 - A frequent discovery is that the world can be a good and wonderful place.
   ...generally enjoy life without censorship.
100 - Warriors of Peace, The Prophet, Tao te Ching, City of Joy, The Road Less Traveled
103 - Rubican??? I will not progress any further down this road. We shouldn't be happy that there's
   going to be a war.
104 - I hit bottom and was diagnosed as depressed after I left Christianity.
113 - my parents were neglecting their children supposedly for God's work
118 - The Burden of Shame
119 - ...centers around control because it is believed that people cannot be trusted.
120 - I felt it was sinful to feel good about anything that I had done.
   ...value clarification in schools??? Insecure people have a difficult time listening to
   disagreements.
   your feelings were not respected as a guage for values or decision-making.
   many Christians struggle with guilt when experiencing ordinary emotions
121 - even positive emotions are suspect if they are not within a spiritual context.
   There isn't enough trust to let go and freely give the hugs, compliments, and unconditional
   love that children crave and need
124 - Notice tht there is no Mother.
141 - You might find yourself expecting the worst, surprised at good fortune, or embarrassed by
   praise.
145 - ...take the time to just be instead of always striving
148 - the impact of rigid religion creates a denial of self.
173 - The idea monster talk feels like truth to your child and thus needs to be corrected.
178 - Anger in this context indicates a "rebellious spirit." To be sad means you are ungrateful 
   and self-pitying. Fear is evidence of lack of trust in God because "Perfect love casts out fear."
184 - Anger ... means that something is wrong. Something has happened that crossed your values...
   [If turns out not] I can let go of my rage.
   Anger calls for attention and a decision.
186 - Being truly involved with life always brings a mix of feelings...Confidence with all of these 
   lets you enjoy the times of happiness.
188 - The ability to manage, channel, and proactively use the energy of your feelings is one 
   definition of maturity.
   Processing Feelings
      4 A's
         Awareness
         Acceptance
         Affirmation
         Action
   ...take a time out. Your brain works so automatically that if you do not interrupt your usual
   thought patterns, you will continue to have exactly the same feelings and reactions over
   and over again.
   You need to freeze the action in your mental movie...[then] you can get the clarity needed to 
   make more conscious choices.
189 - Your feelings are always all right with me.
191 - Instead of having to be careful, over time Little Jan can learn to be more free to feel.
195 - you may need to realize that feelings themselves are safe.
196 - You might experience a persistent free-floating anxiety or paranoia.
197 - It's important to remember that just because you have a feeling does not mean it is based
   in reality.
198 - Mental imagery is a way of directing your unconscious mind to relax and let go of fears.
200 - Your feelings in this stage can amount to real rage. Life was once an understandable system.
   Now you may feel betrayed and abandonded or as if you were tricked.
   It is more productive to accept, understand, and process your anger consiously. In doing this,
   it is criticel to realize that your anger about your life experience is about your survival - 
   not about the wrong-doing of others. We are not talking about blame!
201 - It also shows that it is okay to feel; you can express anger without getting out of control.
206 - Part of your growth will be to accept life as it is. There are no rules about what "should"
   happen to you or anyone else.
216 - In recovering from your religious training, you must reclaim a natural love for yourself.
217 - a deeper assumption that you are real. You do eist. Religious training in self-annihilation 
   can leave you feeling invisible, without substance.
218 - I was very much awed by my authority figure and felt anyone older was automatically wiser 
   and beter than me. I had no answers in me other than what I had been taught by the church and
   my parents.
219 - You may find that because you have not been free to make your own choices, your personal 
   identity is far from clear.
220 - The Christian message of salvation is based on your feeling bad enough to need saving! It is
   likely that now in a deep, unconscious way, you still believe you are basically bad.
221 - You are likely to be acutely aware of your faults and sadly oblivious to your strengths.
   Receiving well-deserved recognition from others can feel shameful and uncomfortable.
   Deep down, I believed I was not important and that calling attention to myself was very, very
   wrong. It is possible to understand your faults, retain a concern about needed changes, and 
   still view yourself as basically good. You can recognie that you have learned a great deal 
   in your life, both positive and negative. Negative patterns can develop in response to complex 
   situations when there is an absence of positive models.
225 - You are not just your mind, you are your body as well...with this awareness, you can let 
   yourself come down out of your head and experience you body.
230 - Stopping Discounting. Discounting is a thought process that alters reality by making 
   something less important than it really is. When you discount yourself, you make yourself 
   less significant and less powerful.
   1) Discount the existence of the situation, problem, or person: "That's no problem."
   2) Discount the severity of the problem: "That's no biggie."
   3) Discount the solvability of the problem: "You can't fight city hall."
   4) Discount your person power to solve problems: "Nothing I can do about that," or "their
      needs are important, mine aren't."
233 - New assumptions
   The earth is my home, I belong here.
   The world is a good place, full of resources and meaning for me.
   I can have a pleasurable life.
   A major aspect of your feeling comfortable in the world will be gaining some understanding 
   and acceptance of the secular world.
236 - Recovering fundamentalists usually need to work on letting go of fearing the world and 
   ordinary life, releasing their superior posture of disdain for the world and dealing with 
   empty feelings of boredom and dissatisfaction.
237 - Don't cast pearls before swine. What a convenient explanation for any lack of immediate
   receptivity. Releasing our disdain for the world will become possible as you rejoin the human 
   race. When you no longer consider yourself as a chosen elite, there is no need to look down
   on others.
238 - Since the meaning of life is no longer simply bestowed on you, you have to become more 
   active in creating your life.
241 - With ou western habits of aggressive and high activity, we have much to learn about sitting
   still, quieting the mind, and listening to the gentler patterns of life.
245 - If you believe that someone or something outside yourself is responsible for your happiness,
   you can never be satisfied. It won't work to replace God and religion with new pleasures if 
   you expect the stimulation itself to be enough. If you believe you have a rich life-source 
   within you, then you can always draw upon it, bringing that spirit of joy and creativity
   to and experience!
254 - The process of careful thinking is discouraged and the content of thought must be strictly
   controlled.
275 - Sometimes tying to be self-reliant and self-directing can cause you to become overly 
   individualistic and laden with anxiety...Life is a dance not a forced march. We don't control 
   our partners and we don't direct every step. The act of responsibility is to accept the 
   invitation to dance.
276 - You wanted life to be easy. I never promised that.
   
















   
   