
xerostomia
tinnitus
hostility
having extreme distrust of people
depersonalization
dysphoria
Other researchers had hypothesized that unloving, neglectful, or excessively perfectionist parenting could play a role.
Emotional coldness, detachment or reduced affect.
Limited capacity to express either positive or negative emotions towards others.
Consistent preference for solitary activities.
Very few, if any, close friends or relationships, and a lack of desire for such.
Indifference to either praise or criticism.
Taking pleasure in few, if any, activities.
phlegmatic
The "over-entitlement" of the narcissist in a family can result in the "under-entitlement" of the schizoid sibling.
The patient appears to have no awareness of how his or her comments or actions affect and hurt other people.
longing for friendship and love.
Depersonalization is a dissociative defense It is experienced most profoundly when anxieties seem overwhelming and is a more extreme form of loss of affect:
stoic
noncompetitive
feeling inferior and an outsider in life
depersonalized
alternately feeling empty, robot-like
withdrawn
have few close friends
impervious to others' emotions
capable of excitement with carefully selected intimates
prefer solitary occupational and recreational activities
marginal or eclectically sociable in groups
lack clarity of goals
usually capable of steady work
quite creative and may make unique and original contributions
capable of passionate endurance in certain spheres of interest
alternations between eloquence and inarticulateness
fluctuations between sharp contact with external reality and hyperreflectiveness about the self
 observers, rather than participants, in the world around them.
a lack of eye contact
Schizoid individuals frequently act out with substance and alcohol abuse and other addictions which serve as substitutes for human relationships.
The substitute of a nonhuman for a human object serves as a schizoid defense. 
Addiction is therefore a schizoid and symbiotic defense.
S. C. Ekleberry[49] suggests that marijuana "may be the single most egosyntonic drug for individuals with SPD because it allows a detached state of fantasy and distance from others, provides a richer internal experience than these individuals can normally create, and reduces an internal sense of emptiness and failure to participate in life. Also, alcohol, readily available and safe to obtain, is another obvious drug of choice for these individuals. Some will use both marijuana and alcohol and see little point in giving up either. They are likely to use in isolation for the effect on internal processes."[49]
Anhedonia
Researchers theorize that anhedonia may result from the breakdown in the brain's reward system, involving the neurotransmitter dopamine
genetic vulnerability to schizophrenia-spectrum disorders
"schizoid personality has a constitutional, probably genetic, basis."[27] The link between SPD and being underweight may also point to the involvement of biological factors.
social anhedonia and social anxiety are also often comorbid with each other.
Working through abandonment depression is a complicated, lengthy and conflicted process that can be an enormously painful experience in terms of what is remembered and what must be felt. It involves mourning and grieving for the loss of the illusion that the patient had adequate support for the emergence of the real self. There is also a mourning for the loss of an identity, the false self, which the person constructed and with which he or she has negotiated much of his or her life. The dismantling of the false self requires relinquishing the only way that the patient has ever known of how to interact with others. This interaction was better than not to have a stable, organized experience of the self, no matter how false, defensive, or destructive that identity may be.
habitually relate to the world by vigilant scanning of the environment for clues or suggestions that may validate their fears or biases. Paranoid individuals are eager observers. 
They tend to be guarded and suspicious and have quite constricted emotional lives.
A genetic contribution to paranoid traits and a possible genetic link between this personality disorder and schizophrenia exist. 
They experience constant tension between feelings of self-importance and experiencing the environment as unappreciative and humiliating.
They have an urge to get external confirmation to their self-deprecation and that makes them see insults in the behavior of other people. They suffer from every slight because they seek the real reason for them in themselves. This kind of insecurity leads to overcompensation: compulsive formality, strict social observances and exaggerated displays of assurance.
overvaluing their abilities and attributing their failure to the ill-will of others
complaints indicating oversensitivity, social isolation and mistrust
self-inflation through grandiose fantasies
coping style of detesting dependence and hostile distancing of oneself from others
feelings of unreality may blend in and the person may puzzle over deciding whether it is the self or the world that feels unreal to them.
Familiar places may look alien, bizarre, and surreal.
Frequently, derealization occurs in the context of constant worrying or "intrusive thoughts" that one finds hard to switch off. In such cases it can build unnoticed along with the underlying anxiety attached to these disturbing thoughts, and be recognized only in the aftermath of a realization of crisis, often a panic attack, subsequently seeming difficult or impossible to ignore. This type of anxiety can be crippling to the affected and may lead to avoidant behavior.
Derealization also affects the learning process. Because the individual almost sees the events as if in 3rd person, they cannot properly process information.

