jack of all trades and master of none
master one and you'll master all
master of all and nones jackass
if my name was jack, i'd be my own master
no one can serve two masters, unless one of them's named jack and he trades money as his profession
i am my own master and you don't know jack about my trade


just mind you well that nobody in the church is over me.

For having been in a church that is so concerned with eternity
That I would care so much about time was an absurdity

I know you like to think your s#*t don't stank
But lean a little bit closer see
Roses really smell like boo boo boo

Who controls the past now controls the future
Who controls the present now controls the past
Who controls the past now controls the future
Who controls the present now?

If they're good enough for Snoop Dogg, they're good enough for me.

Strait out the dungeons of rap, where fake niggas don't make it back

They used to ask ya who ya master
Now they ask ya who ya pastor
It's your allegiance they truly after

Shit ain't gonna change, until you git up and wipe your ass

How do you know where I'm at
When you haven't been where I've been
Understand where I'm coming from

Nobody even knows how I kick the flows
Slow down cuz you're comin' up too fast
You might get smacked down cuz you got no class

You don't want to turn your back on me
When you least expect it 
I come with the wicked methodologies

You got the vocab, I got the vocab
You got the vocab, you know I got the vocab
You got the vocab, I got the vocab
Hey yo pass the mic so that I can show em I got the gift of gab

It took me a little while to discover
Wolves in sheep clothes who pretend to be lovers
Men who lack conscience believe a lie to themselves, to themselves
A friend once said and I found to be true
That everyday people that lie to God too
So what makes you think that they won't lie to you too
Forgive them, forgive them

Everybody self actualize and realize
Do what you got to do
If you can see it, you can be it
If your mind can go there, then why can't you?

Things that rise too quickly fall even faster

bang them shitz
turn them shitz up

I got ya thinking what the f#(k is this
Lettin ya know I take care of biznis
Can I get a witness
To verify when I depict this

Movin' at the speed of a solution
Bleedin' in the streets as we breathin' the polution
They sayin' that we need a revolution
But the passion is reduced to all CAPS in a computer

Let's free the people from deception
If you're looking for the answers
then you got to ask the questions

No idea's original
There's nothing new under the sun
It's never what you do
But how it's done

We've been forsaken with lies
But now we makin some strides
Way past Ecclesiastes

When you're blind to the wicked ways
The devil plays mad tricks on your mind

challenges mad paramount identify dealin was uncertainty jacob earf

Some people tell me that I need help
Some people can fuck off and go to hell
God damn, why they criticize me
Now shit is on the rise so my family despise me
Fuck em! And feed em cause I don't need em
I won't join em if I can beat em
They don't understand my logic
To my gat to my money and I'm hooked on chronic
Muthafuckas be drivin me up the walls
Hopin that I fall but they can suck my balls

Personally, I don't like my buttons being pushed
You push buttons to build a character
A character is an accumulation of emotions
You push buttons to change emotions (TV)
A character is an accumulation of actions
You push buttons to control a character's actions
Pushing buttons can control a character's destiny
Can I press up on your button?
Will you let my joystick control your ecstasy?

I can keep runnin away. 
Maybe I'm not runnin away. Have you ever thought about that?
Maybe stayin close to you is holdin me back.
Maybe you're stagnatin away from me.

We are all on our own path and travelin at different rates.
I'm approachin the speed of light on my path.
How fast ru goin?

The past is passed
The future is whatever it will be
The present is I going to sleep

I write street archives with deep dark eyes
My meek hard cries, when I see the murders beneath God's skies
I recorded lose the disc but we keep hard drives

Allah Be a Born, Cee Divine, Equality
Father, then after that, there's the G-O-D
He or Her, I Islam, then Justice
King of Kingdom, Love, Hell or Right, we still exist
Master, Now in Cypher/O, Power's the Queen
Rule of Rulers, Self of Save, the Truth of the square, the same
Universe, Victory, Wisdom, Unknown/X, Why/Y
Zig Zag Zig, and now we're back home

Walkin through the penile glands, like it was a unfathered man
Knowledge is the key to the mind which is a mysterious doorway
Through a long dark hallway
Use your conscious as a compass to avoid bein' conquered
By nonsense, use your subconscious as a map
Once it's time to head back use your food for thought
And leave bread tracks
Now we can see the third eye, swift as you burn fly
You need common sense as a detour
Up ahead there lies three doors for you to see more
You might have to meditate to the soft melodies from a keyboard
Understandin' is your flashlight
It reflects the windows to your past life
No psychiatric's could raid you from off the mattress
As you fall deeper, and it's hypnotized you better read my lips
Cause that's the guide, out the hallways of negative
Which is always competitive, therefore
You must never let it live

Seek and you shall find
Expand the mind, seek and you shall find
Expand your mind, seek and you shall find
Expand the mind
Seek and you shall find
Expand the mind
Seek and you shall find
Expand the mind
Seek and you shall find
Expand the mind

But am I over ya head?
Am I over ya head?
But am I over ya head?
Yo am I over ya head?
But am I over ya head?
Am I over ya head?
Well am I over ya head?
Yo am I over ya head?

Huh? What? Where? Who?
What? What ya thinkin' about
when who says what when how
You can't maybe follow my style
You be the child, I be the teacher
Smile, who said when, what
Mouth not shut, what?
Whenever however whenever
Whatever the cut
How you maybe could you ever
Believe, that you could so quickly achieve
These crafts, please laugh at his stupid ass
Upon your knees in glass
You lust, for everything but trust
So we bust back, with consciously charged art
With a mic instead of a brush
Yes, us must trust us, who? Us must trust
Not fuss with us, us must trust us discuss trusting us
Us must trust us, who? Us must trust
Not fuss with us, us must trust us discuss thus trusting us
Trusting us, us must trust discuss
Discuss not trusting us must not fuss
Us with us means us discussing trusting us
Us must trust us, who? Us must trust
Not fuss with us, us must discuss trusting us

Something I read in the holy Qur'an how it says
"Has thou seen him who belies religion?
That is one who is rough, to the orphan."
And no matter what we say our religion is
Whether it's Islam, Christianity, Juddaism, Buddha-ism, Old School-ism or New School-ism
If we're not schooling the youth WITH wisdom
Then the sins of the father will visit the children
And that's not keepin it real...
That's keeping it - *WRONG*

Take my weapon, step into a whole new realm
And step back, as I take up the helm

neither doth the beard maketh the man, nor the man the beard
the man growteth the beard and the woman taketh away

serverless architecture
   the less you know the more you pay
   the more you abstract the less you understand
   the less you control the more you rely on (depend on)
   the less you need to understand the faster you go

mastermore architecture
   the more you know the less you pay
   the less you abstract the more you understand
   the more you control the less you rely on
   the less need you have to go fast the more understanding you attain
   
