Nothing else matters if I don't have the trust of my wife.






I hear many voices every day. What's my voice? Do people want to hear it? Do I
want to hear it? What would I say? It's hard work to make it easy and my mind can
only take so much at a time.

This enables you to solve challenges and problems faster, and see opportunities
that were impossible just a few years before. In other words, you can drive low
risk innovation at the speed of need. Business strategy that is based on the
certainty Hard Trends can provide allows you to innovate at a much lower risk and
at the same time provides real value and significant ROI.  Alternatively, a strategy
based on uncertainty (Soft Trends) represents a high risk that often slows progress
and prevents a business from being able to move forward at a time where adapting
to an evolving marketplace is paramount. With training focused on developing
inventive solutions to everyday problems, individuals can bring significant results
by pre-solving those problems that plague businesses on a regular basis. It’s only
when we teach everyone within a business to look for the Hard Trends on the horizon
that they learn to anticipate changes in their industry and ensure solutions are
in place before the problems even arise. We all understand that it's more beneficial
to be pro-active rather than reactive, but many continue to reward playing it safe
and the avoidance of risk until inevitably they run into problems. Many companies
who have failed to invest in creating an anticipatory mindset and decided to stick
to their tried and trusted methods are increasingly struggling to keep up the pace.
Those who continue to react and respond to change and fail to act on the Hard Trends
shaping the future will be unable to adapt and will only fall farther and farther
behind until its too late. The ironic aspect of this familiar story is that it's
the organizations that fail to see the value in driving both small everyday, and
large transformational innovation that often find their industry has been dramatically
changed by a yet another start-up that arrives on the scene. The backlash from the
taxi industry after the arrival of Uber is a fantastic example of what happens to
those that fail to follow the methodologies I have mentioned in this article.

If everybody's thinking alike, somebody is not thinking

You work on the most important thing until it ships or it doesn't become the most
important thing anymore

Innovation within the bounds Microsoft has set
More difficult tasks = more learning (stay out of your comfort zone)
Ask for advice/feedback instead of money
cruft
Your source of truth should be an immutable, append only, list of events
Gauge the strength of a company's engineering: open source, engineering blog
Future proofing is a synonym for now complicating - What are your use cases?
Email is a tool for eventual alignment
Basically, developers are usually just a bunch of goddamn lazy trolls.

Does it sound like it might put some people out of work? If we're doing everything
automated, we might not need as many IT people. So are you the one that's going
to build this stuff or the one that's going to get deep 6'ed by it. Companies are
figuring it out that it's actually a lot cheaper to hire a small number of really
smart IT folks instead of a large number of cheap not so smart IT folks. You need
to make sure you're on top of the smart list. My email is down!!! Shut up you whiny
little $#!+. Failure is an option because it's always going to be an option. We've
always failed. We've never not eliminated failure. It's going to happen. We're not
trying to eliminate failure - we're trying to eliminate change because change is
the root of all failure. What happens is that companies don't change and then they're
bypassed by the competition. Not changing is also failing. All we can do is unfail
a lot faster than we do today. If you show your employees you care about their
professional development, you’ll build a culture where your employees want to learn
how to do something instead of finding someone to do it for them.

Screw the Cloud, I'm going Hyper-Converged

A speaker who uses that kind of phraseology has gone some distance towards turning
himself into a machine. The appropriate noises are coming out of his larynx, but
his brain is not involved as it would be if he were choosing his words for himself.
If the speech he is making is one that he is accustomed to make over and over again,
he may be almost unconscious of what he is saying, as one is when one utters the
responses in church. And this reduced state of consciousness, if not indispensable,
is at any rate favourable to political conformity. This invasion of one's mind by
ready-made phrases (lay the foundations, achieve a radical transformation) can only
be prevented if one is constantly on guard against them, and every such phrase
anaesthetizes a portion of one's brain. On the other hand it is not concerned with
fake simplicity and the attempt to make written English colloquial. Nor does it even
imply in every case preferring the Saxon word to the Latin one, though it does imply
using the fewest and shortest words that will cover one's meaning. I have not here
been considering the literary use of language, but merely language as an instrument
for expressing and not for concealing or preventing thought. If you simplify your
English, you are freed from the worst follies of orthodoxy. Political language -
and with variations this is true of all political parties, from Conservatives to
Anarchists - is designed to make lies sound truthful and murder respectable, and
to give an appearance of solidity to pure wind.

Performance is the art of avoiding work

It's a deep science when dealin with elevation
John 1:51 - you'll begin to see the science to this ladder
  And he said to him, "Very truly, I tell you, you will see heaven opened and the
  angels of God ascending and descending upon the Son of Man."
Gen 28 - metatron
  12 And he dreamed that there was a ladder set up on the earth, the top of it
  reaching to heaven; and the angels of God were ascending and descending on it.
  16 Then Jacob woke from his sleep and said, "Surely the Lord is in this place
  and I did not know it!" 17 And he was afraid, and said, "How awesome is this
  place! This is none other than the house of God, and this is the gate of heaven."

Heb 7:
Daniel 3:25
  He replied, "But I see four men unbound, walking in the middle of the fire, and
  they are not hurt; and the fourth has the appearance of a god."
Joshua 5
  13 Once when Joshua was by Jericho, he looked up and saw a man standing before
  him with a drawn sword in his hand. Joshua went to him and said to him, "Are
  you one of us, or one of our adversaries?" 14 He replied, "Neither; but as
  commander of the army of the Lord I have now come." And Joshua fell on his face
  to the earth and worshiped, and he said to him, "What do you command your servant,
  my lord?" 15 The commander of the army of the Lord said to Joshua, "Remove the
  sandals from your feet, for the place where you stand is holy." And Joshua did so.
Exodus 24
  10 and they saw the God of Israel. Under his feet there was something like a
  pavement of sapphire stone, like the very heaven for clearness.
John 3:13
  No one has ascended into heaven except the one who descended from heaven, the
  Son of Man

latter of jacob
he was on the earf

Deut 28:48
  therefore you shall serve your enemies whom the Lord will send against you, in
  hunger and thirst, in nakedness and lack of everything. He will put an iron yoke
  on your neck until he has destroyed you.

Exodus 14 - have you ever opened? tell me how much a dollar costs
sk reading corinthians

hermeneutics of suspicion - why should I believe what this sob is trying to tell me?

You are a lion’s cub, Judah;
  you return from the prey, my son.
Like a lion he crouches and lies down,
  like a lioness—who dares to rouse him?

Judah is a lion’s whelp;
  from the prey, my son, you have gone up.
He crouches down, he stretches out like a lion,
  like a lioness—who dares rouse him up?

Judah is a lion's whelp:
  from the prey, my son, thou art gone up:
he stooped down, he couched as a lion,
  and as an old lion; who shall rouse him up?

A cub [and] a grown lion is Judah.
  From the prey, my son, you withdrew.
He crouched, rested like a lion,
  and like a lion, who will rouse him?

:גּוּר אַרְיֵה יְהוּדָה מִטֶּרֶף בְּנִי עָלִיתָ כָּרַע רָבַץ כְּאַרְיֵה וּכְלָבִיא מִי יְקִימֶנּוּ

A cub [and] a grown lion is Judah: He prophesied about David, who was at first like
a cub: "When Saul was king over us, it was you who led Israel out and brought them
in" (II Sam. 5:2), and at the end a lion, when they made him king over them. This
is what Onkelos means in his translation by יְהֵא בְּשֵׁירוּיָא שִׁלְטוֹן, [he shall be a ruler]
in his beginning.from the prey: From what I suspected of you, (namely) that "Jospeh
has surely been torn up; a wild beast has devoured him" (Gen. 37:33). This referred
to Judah, who was likened to a lion. - [from Tanchuma Vayigash 9] my son, you withdrew:
Heb. עָלִיתָ, you withdrew yourself and said, "What is the gain [if we slay our brother
and cover up his blood]?" (Gen. 37:26) (Gen. Rabbah 99:8). Similarly, [Judah withdrew]
from killing Tamar, when he confessed, "She is right, [it is] from me... (Gen. 38: 26)
(Aggadath Bereshith 83). Therefore, "he crouched, lay down, etc." [This was fulfilled]
in the time of Solomon, "every man under his vine, etc." (I Kings 5:5) (Gen. Rabbah 98:7)

Nat Turner 1831

5871 - Contrary to the dictates of reason, a standard has been established which
affirms that innocence bred of ignorance is more to be desired than virtue born of
knowledge. Eventually, however, man will learn that he need never be ashamed of
truth. Until he does learn this, he is false to his God, to his world, and to himself.

ASCIIbetically

If you can understand me, look at me now.
You know when I said I knew little about love?
Well, that wasn't true. I know a lot about love.
I've seen it. I've seen centuries and centuries of it.
And it was the only thing that made watching your world bearable.
All those wars. Pain and lies. Hate.
Made me want to turn away and never look down again.
But to see the way that mankind loves.
I mean, you could search the furthest reaches of the universe
and never find anything more beautiful.

So, yes, I know that love is unconditional.
But I also know it can be unpredictable,
unexpected, uncontrollable, unbearable
and, well, strangely easy to mistake for loathing.
And what I'm trying to say, is
I think I love you.

My heart, it feels like my chest can barely contain it.
Like it doesn't belong to me anymore. It belongs to you.
And if you wanted it, I'd wish for nothing in exchange.
No gifts, no goods, no demonstrations of devotion.
Nothing but knowing you love me, too.

Just your heart in exchange for mine.

-Yvaine (Stardust)

You have as much time as you need, so do not hurry. If you don't finish the test
today, you can finish it later. Thirty minutes of daily exercise can help your mind
and body. As a result of regular activity, you will strengthen muscles, including
your heart. You will also have more energy and not feel as tired. Another effect
of exercise is that your brain makes chemicals that help you feel happy.

The greatest trick the devil ever played was to convince the world he did not exist
The greatest trick the devil ever played was to convince the world he is God (Demiurge)

University of Duality
Fear is the opposite of Love, not Hate

Do unto animals as you would do unto yourselves.

It's always a pleasure to work with Chris. He knows how to lighten the mood and
when to keep it real. Also he knows a buttload of crap about computers and stuff.

There's no more work-life balance - there's just life!
It may not be that the brain generates consciousness, but rather receives consciousness

We are United in our Passion of having Fun while making it Easy for our Customers
to Innovate without much fanfare. Go Cloud!

(hum1$FUm

if you're not paying, you're the product

hydrogen, helium, oxygen, carbon

Make the Leap from Hyperconvergence to Cloud Inspired to Enterprise Clouds with
veeemwhere and newtanicks

How do you say no without the person realizing you're saying no?

Microsoft is an innovation laggard

if you don't stand for something, you'll fall for anything

I am what I want to be and what I want to be is what I am.
But my wants are always changing.

In a world where so much value is given to the ability to predict behavior,
impredicktability is taken away by fear of the nukuomu.

All men are bound whether willingly or unwillingly to obey that intellect in which
they recognize qualities and virtues superior to their own. Today man, a sublime
creature with infinite capacity for self-improvement, in an effort to be true to
false standards, turns from his birthright of understanding - without realizing
the consequences - and plunges into the maelstrom of material illusion. The precious
span of his earthly years he devotes to the pathetically futile effort to establish
himself as an enduring power in a realm of unenduring things. Gradually the memory
of his life as a spiritual being vanishes from his objective mind and he focuses
all his partly awakened faculties upon the seething beehive of industry which he
has come to consider the sole actuality. Here in the lurid turmoil of a great
industrial, political, commercial inferno, men writhe in self-afflicted agony and,
reaching out into the swirling mists, strive to clutch and hold the grotesque
phantoms of success and power. [Sciences] so-called practical discoveries bind man
but more tightly with the bonds of physical limitation. Religion, too, has become
materialistic; the beauty and dignity of faith is measured by huge piles of masonry,
by tracts of real estate, or by the balance sheet. Philosophy which connects heaven
and earth like a mighty ladder, up the rungs of which the illumined of all ages have
climbed into the living presence of Reality - even philosophy has become a prosaic
and heterogeneous mass of conflicting notions. Like other branches of human thought,
it has been made materialistic - "practical" - and its activities so directionalized
that they may also contribute their part to the erection of this modern world of
stone and steel. A few are beginning to realize that so-called civilization in its
present form is at a vanishing point; that coldness, heartlessness, commercialism,
and material efficiency are impractical, and only that which offers opportunity
for the expression of love and ideality is truly worth while. Men must learn that
happiness crowns the soul's quest for understanding. Only through the realization
of infinite goodness and infinite accomplishment can the peace of the inner Self
be assured. The great philosophic institutions of the past must rise again, for
these alone can tend the veil which divides the world of causes from that of effects.
Only the Mysteries - those sacred Colleges of Wisdom - can reveal to struggling
humanity that greater and more glorious universe which is the true home of the
spiritual being called man. Well has it been said that no individual can succeed
until he has developed his philosophy of life. The human intellect is ever surrounded
by forms of existence beyond the estimation of its partly developed faculties. In
this realm of objects not understood is a never-failing source of mental stimuli.
Thus wisdom eventually results from the effort to cope rationally with the problem
of the unknown. The microscope reveals to man his significance; the telescope, his
insignificance. Philosophy reveals to man his kinship with the All. Man may live
two lives. One is a struggle from the womb to the tomb. The other life is from
realization to infinity. Man is not the insignificant creature that he appears to
be; his physical body is not the true measure of his real self. The invisible nature
of man is as vast as his comprehension and as measureless as his thoughts.

philosophy - the study of the fundamental nature of knowledge, reality, and existence,
especially when considered as an academic discipline.

Why don't you just become a teacher? That actually makes a lot of sense.
I mean, you have all this knowledge about stuff you have no ability to do.

Beware the frustrated nigga

Sometimes I handle ambiguity well, sometimes I don't.

Everything in moderation, even moderation.

This is the story of when I realized my wife was a Master of the English language.
Many words can mean the same thing and the same word can mean many things.
Kinda like relationships in RDBMSs.
She has been having digestive problems and I walked in the bathroom and she had
wiped her butt and was staring at the paper in her hand. I said "gross" and she
said, "I have to see if there's any crap in my poop."
And I thought, "She's a Master"

I wasn't going to say more but because of you're baseless accusation of bullying,
I'm compelled to. A bully uses his position of power or authority to impose his
will on others. I have no position of power or authority over you in our community.
All I did was speak my opinion and ask questions. Since it is your culture to blindly
trust and not criticize authority and you teach that...

Main skills of software engineering: forming abstractions, reducing complexity

Risk

Fun list
  When tangential ideas come, note them and get back to work quickly. Revisit this
  list when you’ve reached a stopping spot.

Feed Ideas
  Ideas are like frightened little birds. If you scare them away they will stop
  coming around. When you have an idea, feed it a little. Invalidate it as quickly
  as you can, but from data not from a lack of self-esteem.

80/15/5
  Spend 80% of your time on low-risk/reasonable-payoff work. Spend 15% of your time
  on related high-risk/high-payoff work. Spend 5% of your time on things that tickle
  you, regardless of payoff. Teach the next generation to do your 80% job. By the
  time someone is ready to take over, one of your 15% experiments (or, less
  frequently, one of your 5% experiments) will have paid off and will become your
  new 80%. Repeat.

Conclusion
  The flow in this outline seems to be from reducing risks by managing time and
  increasing learning to mindfully taking risks by using your whole brain and
  quickly triaging ideas.


know predict control

From Virtualization to Digital Transformation: Your Guide To The Next Level

Netflix is a big data and telemetry company that has the byproduct of streaming
video over the internet.

I wish I could man. The universe would have to align to make it happen dude, please.

Fail early, fail often  -->  Release early, release often

Studies have shown when you precede a statement with 'studies have shown', the
statement is more likely to be believed.

Is this the dawning of the Age of Assistance?

Listening to a hole talk about Jenkins is like listening to NextGenHacker101 talk
about networking.

Language is the past, Math is the future

As far as the laws of mathematics refer to reality, they are not certain, and as
far as they are certain, they do not refer to reality. -Albert Einstein

Culture is a plot against the expansion of consciousnesses
Nobody needs to guard the truth from inspection
Nobody needs to tell you you can't look behind the stage
Language was designed to hide feelings

All water has a perfect memory and is forever trying to get back to where it was.
Nothing is softer or more flexible than water, yet nothing can resist it. To have
faith is to trust yourself to the water. When you swim you don't grab hold of the
water, because if you do you will sink and drown. Instead you relax, and float.

Water does not resist. Water flows. When you plunge your hand into it, all you feel
is a caress. Water is not a solid wall, it will not stop you. But water always goes
where it wants to go, and nothing in the end can stand against it. Water is patient.
Dripping water wears away a stone. Remember that, my child. Remember you are half
water. If you can't go through an obstacle, go around it. Water does. Human nature
is like water. It takes the shape of its container.

When an honest man discovers he is mistaken,
he will either cease being mistaken,
or cease being honest.

maintainability, reliability or compactness. Reuse, simplification,
generalization, orthogonality: this is the Zen of Unix in action.

Do as little work as possible. Let the data shape the code. Lean on your tools.
Separate mechanism from policy. Expert Unix programmers learn to see possibilities
like these quickly and automatically. Constructive laziness is one of the cardinal
virtues of the master programmer.

A symbol should be the result of knowledge - the understanding the awareness and
then you have the symbol surface. Having someone learn symbols and then distributing
a very strategically limited amount of meaning to that person does not give them
knowledge. They perceive that they are getting knowledge they are looking for. The
end result is therefore you are dependent on the meaning that is given to you. The
idea of indoctrinating somebody with an oath is absolute evil. Why? because they
are declaring they do not want you to be a creative being and extract your own
meaning.

The author holds that our school curricula, by stripping mathematics of its cultural
content and leaving a bare skeleton of technicalities, have repelled many a fine
mind. It is the aim of this book to restore this cultural content and present the
evolution of number as the profoundly human story which it is.

Dedicated to deduplicating machine sprawl and hyperconverging all the workloads
in the clouds or on the premises.

There is no such thing as a schema free database that can deal very well with textual
search. We need to index according to how we are going to search, instead of trying
to construct searches according to how things are stored.

nothing is as it seems

Atom: Clash of Titans
  Atoms are willfully obscure. We can never fully know an atoms position and speed
  simultaneously. The atomic world just refuses to allow that to happen. It was
  completely mind boggling. But once they accepted it, Heisenberg and Bohr found
  the boost of confidence to be even more bold. They realized uncertainty forced
  them to put paradox right at the very heart of the Atom.

If Jesus were to return today, he'd be a hip-hop artist and he'd come to me for his beats.

If you fools want to spy on me, all you see me doing is cool shit.

So, what they're saying is that the most badass thing out of amarika is a blackman and they call him clown.
