silicon valley

s01e01

 dude - we're making a lot of money and yes we're disrupting digital media. but most importantly we're making the world a better place through constructing elegant hierarchies for maximum code reuse and extensibility   

richard - Jobs was a poser, he didn't even write code
erlich - you just disappeared up your own asshole

gavin - hooli is about making the world a better place through minimal message oriented transport layers. i believe we can only achieve greatness if at first we create goodness
hooli poster - it takes change to make change

gilfoil - i'm a laveyan satanist with some theistic tendancies

gavin - it's weird they always travel in groups of 5. these programmers 
danpak - you clearly have a great understanding of humanity

peter gregory - did you just take a sip from an empty cup. why did you do that?

s01e02

gavin - i hate richard hendricks. is that wrong?
danpak - in the hands of a lesser person perhaps but in the hands of the enlightened hate can be a tool for great change

gavin - if we can make your audio and video files smaller, we can make cancer smaller, and hunger and aids

s01e03

richard - if you keep saying your name it forces the assailant to acknowledge you as a human

erlich - infatrode, what the fuck is infatrode?

s01e04

bro1 - why did richard use a dct filter bank?

peter - thank you florida

jared - being around angry people relaxes me because i know where i stand
jared - don't think about it as a cubicle, just think of it as a neutral colored enclosure about yay high around your workspace

s01e06

carver - i pound mello yellow, oreos, aderol and i don't sleep until i'm done
carver - now you make me laugh shaggy man

the order of the golden dawners

s01e07

gilfoyle - face it danesh, you're code gay

we're so lo mo bro

s01e08

gilfoyle - i'm going to disrupt this bathroom
jared - that's a kind invitation but i have too much to do i'm pivoting
erlich - i know how long it would take me and i can prove it

s02e01

gavin - i have a question, that was horrible. ... someone's compression is going to save the world from datageddon and it sure as hell better be nucleus. 

s02e02

lawyer - i'm part of the team that team is on

s02e03

hanneman - that whole spaz thing you did was fucking priceless
gavin - billionaires are people too
hanneman - you call this place and they don't know you they pretend they don't know english
hanneman - don't do what you should do, do what you want
gilfoyle - do you want me to be honest or nice?
danpak - what i saw was an antianti semite
gavin - shalom malekam
gavin - in an effort to hardwire sensitivity into our corporate mindspace...
hanneman - if you have no revenue, you can say you're prerevenue. you're a potential pure play. it's not about what you earn, it's about what you're worth. and who's worth the most? companies that lose money.
hanneman - i don't want to make a little money everyday. i want to earn a fuck ton of money all at once. roi! radio on internet

bighead - so what's my job exactly?
hr - it's up to you. you can do whatever you want.
bighead - ok. that's sort of what i do now though.
hr - but starting today you can do it in a much more significant way. enjoy your new office.

s02e04

erlich - christianity is borderline illegal in northern california...owning a pot bellied pig is almost as unfashionable as being a christian
gilfoyle - we're about precision. About shaving yoctoseconds off every layer of the stack

s02e05

gavin - all i hear from everybody is good news. have i just surrounded myself with sycophants who are just telling me whatever i want to hear regardless of the truth?
dimpak - no
gavin - thank you dimpak, i really needed to hear that.

s02e06

gavin - don't tell me this is zune bad.

s02e07

gavin - imagine a function so game changing that it's integration into nucleus will justify any miscue in it's rollout. seriously, imagine it and do it quickly.
richard - i just paid them $80,000 to have the right to pay them more
gilfoyle - my feeling is if you're the ceo of a company and you're dumb enough to leave your login info on a post-it note on your desk while the people who you ripped off are physically in your office, it's not a hack. it's barely social engineering. it's more like natural selection.
gilfoyle - it's time to walk the left hand path richard

s02e09

brogrammer - do you have any skill at all besides failing your way to the top?

s02e10

erlich - madam, you do not call a man a fool on the transom of his own home
