## The Sculptor in the Sky - Teal Swan

1 - the answers you are looking for are already yours. The path you are looking for is
   path you are already on.
3 - The history of religion tells you a lot about the history of men and precious little
   about God.
12 - physical reality is a very definitive playground of opposites.
   In this physical reality, it feels often like beliefs are static truths.
13 - To get caught in this default way of living is to be stuck in a state of only noticing 
   manifestation and missing the precursor to manifestation, which is the entire truth 
   to life...anything that is in your life is as a result of what you were previously 
   resonating with. pre-manifestation comprehension
14 - When you find bliss, knowing that the ultimate truth to the universe is the truth 
   of oneness, all find bliss along with you.
   The ultimate truth of your existence is that you are free.
17 - If you walk the path of nonresistance - if you let go and just let yourself be 
   pulled magnetically by your higher self (which is acting in your best interest at 
   all times) - your life will be blissful and you will get every single thing you want.
18 - We have a multibillion dollar pharmaceutical industry set up to make profit a from 
   chemically aiding people to suppress their emotions and change them externally.
19 - Thought (what you could call the mind) exists beyond the brain; it is not the 
   brain that gives rise to thought.
20 - bliss and freedom on one end of the line, and total powerlessness and fear on the
   other. It is only when you ignore that emotional compass that you become convinced that 
   emotions have ever failed you and are ever negative in nature.

fear or sadness -> anger -> pessimism -> optimism -> happiness

Do not condemn your or someone else's anger - ever. If it comes after a feeling of fear 
or sadness, it is a serious improvement.

21 - all emotion exists to reflect to you whether you are in resonance with your higher 
   self and therefore source itself or in discord with it.
   want the now.
   want is not the rot of evil. It is the way the universe becomes more aware of itself. 
   It is the very root of our evolution. It is easy to make it the root of evil if one is 
   not aware that he or she can manifest what he or she desires at an point.
22 - You are playing this life out, and you are also a piece of a bigger picture, which 
   is playing you.
30 - The transition into death does not have to be a painful one, and you do not have to 
   decline in health to die unless you believe it will be painful and that you must 
   decline in health to do so.
31 - Death feels wonderful, no matter who you are or what you have done in your physical
   life.
38 - The accuracy of psychic impression relies heavily on the ability to achieve an unbiased 
   state.
43 - DNA is the very first manifestation of a blueprint of Source's idea of you. It is
   the meeting place of the spirit and the physical...DNA, like everything else, has a 
   magnetic field, and as such, it is not restricted to the third dimension. It is 
   interdimensional.
   We are used to seeing the world in an external context, so we tend to trust the advice 
   of people outside of us who we bieve know better than we do and have devoted time 
   to the study of one thing or another. In trusting their advice and knowledge, we 
   believe the thoughts they lend to us. And believing is being.
44 - Mind (thought) is the bridge between spirit and body. You find harmony with your 
   spirit with your thoughts, and you use thoughts to create harmony in your body. Your 
   entire body originated as a thought.
47 - Any action that is inspired by a bad-feeling place rather than a good place should 
   never be taken. But any action inspired by a good-feeling place or thought should be 
   taken immediately. You will notice when you start to do this that nothing that is 
   worth doing is hard to do.
52 - Your intention in coming into the physical dimension was never to measure your value 
   against others or to come to the conclusion that anything or anyone is better than you.
   Make bliss your life's purpose. If you go against your own bliss, you will find that 
   everything you are trying to force yourself to become, do, and force into existence 
   takes a great deal of effort.
54 - It is of paramount importance to accept where you are and who you are. It is also of 
   paramount importance to accept where and who others are.
55 - Acceptance is the key to unconditional love.
57 - The universe will not let those who stand in opposition of their true selves do it 
   for long.
59 - _Real_ happiness is never dependent on anything outside of you.
60 - There is not a criticism in the universe that isn't hypocritical. No problem you 
   ever have is with any other person besides yourself.
62 - Truly happy people see the value in negativity.
67 - Dance is a moving expression of emotion.
72 - Mastery is not the outcome of being in charge of action; it is the outcome of being 
   in charge of the mind.
73 - All meditation is a form of self-inducing a specific state of consciousness. All 
   meditation is designed to help us learn to use our minds instead of continuing the 
   cycle of our mind using us.
   