yoga

root - crow
sacral - frog
solar plexus - stretch
heart - camel
throat - cobra
third eye - guru pranum
crown - sat kriya



root
	The Muladhara, First or Root Chakra, is located at the base of the spine, at the perineum. The name means support, or foundation.
	It is associated, in the body with the large intestine, feet and legs, with the element earth, and with the colors red and maroon.
	Human Challenge and Gift - to feel safe and secure in the physical plane, to manifest to meet our basic needs.
	Soul Desire - to feel nurtured and nourished, to experience belonging to the whole.
	Primal Relationship - with physical reality, the Earth, natural forces, body, feeling sensations.
sex
	The Swadisthana, or Sex Chakra, is located at the sacrum - the pelvic area between pubis and navel. Its name means "abode of the vital force" or "dwelling place of the self.
	It is associated, in the body with the genitals, reproductive organs, and bladder, with the element water, and the color orange.
	Human Challenge and Gift - to bond and connect with others without losing our identity.
	Soul Desire - to freely expand - to effortlessly create.
	Primal Relationship - with other human beings, emotions and emotional body, inner child, wildman or wild woman.
navel
	The Manipuraka, or Navel Chakra, is located some 2-3 inches below the navel. It's name means "jewel of the lotus" or "lustrous gem".
	It is associated, in the body with the small intestine, kidneys, adrenals, pancreas, gallbladder, liver, with the element fire, and the color yellow.
	Human Challenge and Gift - to connect with our internal source power and energy
	Soul Desire - to ignite, connect with and focus physical energy
	Primal Relationship - with internal source of power, identity, status
solar plexus
	The Solar Plexus Chakra is located, as its name suggests, between the navel and heart, at the pericardium (below the breasts at the V of the ribs). it's name means "Seat of the Soul", or solar network.
	It is associated, in the body with the stomach, with the elements fire and water, and the color deep gold.
	Human Challenge and Gift - to transmute the energy of the emotions into soulful passion for life i.e. fear into love, anger into action, sadness into surrender and bliss
	Soul Desire - to experience the depth of emotions and transmute them into passion and devotion. To activate our soul.
	Primal Relationship - with our soul and emotional body
heart
	The Anahatha or Heart Chakra, is located at the heart. Its name means unstuck, fresh, clean unhurt.
	It is associated, in the body with the heart, hands, arms and thymus gland, with the element air and the colors green, pink, and rose.
	Human Challenge and Gift - to open our hearts to the nonjudgmental, detached vibration of universal love.
	Soul Desire - to experience unity, devotion, reverence for life, unattached bonding.
	Primal Relationship - with higher spiritual power, our own heart and the hearts of others, the pulse that unites us with the universe.
throat
	The Visudda or Throat Chakra is situated in the throat, at the base of the neck between the collar bone and shoulders, at the site of the reptillian brain or lower brain stem. Its name means pure.
	It is associated, in the body with the throat, ears, thyroid, parathyroid, with the element ether, and the color royal blue.
	Human Challenge and Gift - to fearlessly express our truth and hear the sound of the universe.
	Soul Desire - to be heard and understood, to transmit and receive the Truth.
	Primal Relationship - with our vibrational connection with all existance.
third eye
	The Ajana or Third Eye Chakra, is located between the brows in the inward, center of the forehead. Its name means command, perception, knowledge, authority.
	It is associated, in the body with the pituitary gland, eyes, brain, with the element light and also beyond the elements, and with the colors purple and indigo.
	Human Challenge and Gift - to move from dualistic mind to intuitive neutral mind.
	Soul Desire - to focus the mind, where one-pointed clarity and peace automatically occur.
	Primal Relationship - with inner and cosmic knowledge.
crown
	The Sahashrara or Crown Chakra, is located at the crown or top of the head, baby's soft spot. Its name means "thousand petal lotus".
	It is associated, in the body with the pineal gland & cerebral cortex, with consciousness and beyond the elements, and with the colors white, silve and the quality of luminosity.
	Human Challenge and Gift - to tune into and surrender to divine consciousness.
	Soul Desire - to connect with and utilize infinite energies, to know the unknown, to experience the transcendental meaning to life.
	Primal Feeling - oneness, bliss.

aura
	The Aura is the electromagnetic field, the psychic field of energy surrounding all beings, human or otherwise. Its size can vary from a few inches to many feet in all directions.
	It is associated with the health of the physical body, and all the organs impact the strength and the size of the aura. It includes and is impacted by all the elements, and its colors vary and change depending upon the mental, emotional and physical states.
	Human Challenge and Gift - to experience one's energetic self.
	Soul Desire - human individuation and identification with one's Soul.
	Primal Relationship - with Self and Soul.
	
	